- [Instructor] Spring profiles provide a way
to segregate parts of your application configuration
and make it available to only certain environments.
We will learn how to define Spring profiles
with properties files and enable them at runtime.
So, I'd like to have a profile
that uses H2 in memory database
and another that interacts with MySQL.
To do this with properties files,
I created another file called application-mysql.properties
in the resources folder,
so this would be the profile called MySQL.
And it contains the settings
that are just for interacting
with the MySQL database container.
Back in application.properties,
we need to set an active profile
and so, the spring.profiles.active set to default
means that whenever the application starts up,
only these properties will be set.
So, that is set at runtime
either as a JVM parameter,
an operating system environment
or even a cloud configuration in a server
or this way we have it just
in the application.properties file.
So, before running the application in default mode,
let's make sure that the ec-mysql container is not running.
Oh, it is running,
so we need to stop the container and remove it.
And so, it's no longer there.
Now let's launch the application using the H2 Database.
And we see that it does.
Now let's change this
in the application.properties file to mysql,
so we'll stop this.
The next time this runs,
it will load the application.properties file
and then afterwards we'll load
the application-mysql properties.
If there are any identical properties,
the MySQL properties will override them.
And it does not run
because it tries to connect to the MySQL container
and that container is not running.
So, let's start that container again.
We'll go to our README file
to help us get that long command line.
Wait for that for a moment to start up.
There it is.
So, let's start the application again
and it connects to the database
because it's now using these data source settings.
So, this works but we don't wanna have to edit
the spring.profiles.active
in application.properties every time.
We can override the property file setting
with a system property at the command line.
So, before we do that, let's set this back to default,
and stop the application
and then we're actually going to run the application
at the command line with Maven.
Let's make sure that Maven is installed correctly.
So mvn -version,
so it shows the version I'm running of Maven,
if this is not running properly for you,
refer to the installation instructions.
So, the Spring Boot Maven plugin
provides a task called spring-boot:run
and we will use that to set a system property.
Now let's set the spring.profiles.active.
And then we're going to make sure
that Maven doesn't try to run the unit tests,
so we'll say skipTests equals true.
And the application starts up.
If you prefer, you could also build the jar
with Maven and launch the jar with a JVM.
The system property setting
of -d springBoot.profiles.active equals mysql is the same
and all of these are described in the README file
in the Startup with Profile Settings section.